---
layout: page
title: Privacy Statement
---

## General

This website provides static pages only, and does not collect any private data. However, there are exceptions: the comment system by Disqus and web analysis by Google.

## Comment system with Disqus

This website uses Disqus, a third party comment application to provide it's commenting facility. If you choose to submit a public comment on this website, you will be asked to post as a guest and to give your email address and name along with your comment. Alternatively you can login to post your comment using an existing Disqus, Twitter, OpenID or Yahoo! account.

Your guest name or registered Disqua, Twitter, OpenID or Yahoo! username will be published alongside your comments.

[You can read the Disqus Privacy Policy here](http://help.disqus.com/entries/96979-privacy-policy).

## Web analysis with Google Analytics

This website uses Google Analytics, a web analysis service of Google Inc. (Google). Google Analytics uses cookies, i.e. text files stored on your computer to enable analysis of website usage by you. Information generated by the cookie about your use of this website is usually transmitted to a Google server in the United States and stored there. In case of activated IP anonymization on this website, however, your IP address is previously truncated by Google within member states of the European Union or in other states which are party to the agreement on the European Economic Area. Only in exceptional cases is a full IP address transmitted to a Google server in the United States and truncated there. On behalf this website's owner, Google will use this information to evaluate your use of the website, compile reports about website activities, and provide the website's operator with further services related to website and Internet usage. The IP address sent from your browser as part of Google Analytics is not merged with other data by Google. You can prevent storage of cookies by appropriately setting your browser software; in this case, however, please note that you might not be able to fully use all functions offered by this website. In addition, you can prevent data generated by the cookie and relating to your use of the website (including your IP address) from being collected and processed by Google, by downloading and installing a browser plug-in from the following link: http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en

This website uses Google Analytics with the extension "anonymizeIP()", IP addresses being truncated before further processing in order to rule out direct associations to persons.
